Heads-up, it has been a while since I have handled diversification rate analysis methods under HiSSE, BiSSE, and BAMM. 
What I do remember is that I spent a loooooong time trying to understand the theory behind the methods. If you find
yourself having to or wanting to apply these methods, I strongly recommend reading up on them before you actually go on 
with the analysis. I have uploaded the R scripts I ran with some comments to make the script easier to read, however
I have not gone into too much detail because I don't want to spend time revisiting the intricate details of the methods again. 

Here is some background and source material which could potentially be a good starting point: 

BiSSE, BAMM, and HiSSE are all diversification rate analysis methods but they can be classified into two 
kinds: trait-dependent methods (BiSSE and HiSSE) and trait-independent methods (BAMM). Trait-dependent methods tell 
youif there is a difference in diversification rates between lineages that are characterised by different states. For 
example,lineages with wings and lineages without wings. Under BiSSE, you check this for a binary trait with two states: 0 and 
1 (which are a stand-in for two states of any binary character). So you are essentially checking if there is a difference 
in diversification rates between lineages in state 0 and lineages in state 1. The question that can arise now is: what if 
there is a difference, but this difference is caused by a "hidden trait" that you have not considered in your analysis or 
are not seeing? This is where HiSSE comes in. HiSSE considers hidden states A and B that can be associated with the obvious 
states 0 and 1. So you have combinations of states 1A, 1B, 0A, 0B. You can also implement models with two or four hidden 
states. 

The implementation of BiSSE is through different evolutionary models whose parameters are speciation 
rates (lambda0 and lambda1) and extinction rates (mu0 and mu1) for different states and transition rates 
between these states(q01 and q10). Each model is initiated by constraining the relationships between these 
parameters. For example, lambda1 != lambda0, mu1 != mu0, q01!= q10 is a model which assumes there is a difference 
in speciation and extinction rates between lineages-0 and lineages-1 and that the rate of transition from  0 to 1 is 
different is unequal to the rate of transition from 1 to 0. These parameters are estimated in the max likelihood framework. 
However, you can use the parameters that maximised the likelihood as priors and estimate parameters in the Bayesian 
framework as well. 

The implementation of HiSSE is a bit more complicated because of the number of state combinations and the number of 
transition rates that arise as a result. Each state (1A, 1B, 0A, 0B) is associated with a speciation and extinction rate, 
which is straightforward enough, but the transition rates between all these states are defined in a transition matrix. Trust 
me, sit with this for some time, and you will love it when you actually understand the transition matrix. 
RevBayes (https://revbayes.github.io/tutorials/sse/hisse.html) has a great schematic that will help you get an overview of 
HiSSE at the onset. 

BAMM is a trait-independent method where characters or their states are not taken into consideration at all. It is an 
analysis whose aim it is to detect significant rate shits in phylogenetic trees. This is implemented in a Bayesian framework, 
by the way. BAMM has detailed documentation online (https://bamm-project.org/). Reading it first is very helpful. This method
has some criticisms, and authors have gone back and forth debating the efficacy of BAMM. 

**Remember, the use of these methods in evolutionary analyses is somewhat controversial, both from the perspective of 
the methodology and assumptions (especially their use in establishing "key innovations"). There are also studies 
about the limitations of these methods and the variation of their power with sample size, despite the fact that you can 
account for incomplete sampling (Davies et al., 2013; Kodandaramaiah & Murali, 2018). I would suggest reading them to 
Actually get a good idea of what these methods are doing and what their limitations are instead of being very excited 
about your results. I would be cautious when interpreting results obtained from these analyses. 

References: 
1. FitzJohn, R.G., 2012. Diversitree: comparative phylogenetic analyses of diversification in
R. Methods Ecol. Evol. 3, 1084–1092.
2. FitzJohn, R.G., Maddison, W.P., Otto, S.P., 2009. Estimating trait-dependent speciation
and extinction rates from incompletely resolved phylogenies. Syst. Biol. 58,
595–611.
3. Beaulieu, J.M., O’Meara, B.C., 2016. Detecting hidden diversification shifts in models of
trait-dependent speciation and extinction. Syst. Biol. 65, 583–601. 
4. Rabosky, D.L., 2014. Automatic detection of key innovations, rate shifts, and diversity dependence on phylogenetic trees. 
PLoS One 9, e89543.
5. Rabosky, D.L., Grundler, M., Anderson, C., Title, P., Shi, J.J., Brown, J.W., Huang, H.,
Larson, J.G., 2014. BAMM tools: an R package for the analysis of evolutionary
dynamics on phylogenetic trees. Methods Ecol. Evol. 5, 701–707.
6. Plummer, M., Best, N., Cowles, K., Vines, K., 2006. CODA: convergence diagnosis and
output analysis for MCMC. R News 6, 7–11
7. Davis, M.P., Midford, P.E., Maddison, W., 2013. Exploring power and parameter
estimation of the BiSSE method for analyzing species diversification. BMC Evol. Biol.
13, 1–11.
8. Kodandaramaiah, U., Murali, G., 2018. What affects power to estimate speciation rate
shifts? PeerJ 6, e5495. 

