I performed parametric biogeography by implementing the six biogeographic models defined under the BioGeoBEARS R package. There is an R script that can be used to
implement the models first-hand. However, there is also a possibility to implement the models using the tool RASP. Before you delve into the actual analysis, it is first
of all very important to understand what biogeography, especially parametric biogeography, entails. For this, I would recommend starting with reading Sanmartin (2012), 
which I found to be a very helpful source to gain an overview on the methodology.

BioGeoBEARS is a package which lets you implement different models of biogeographic evolution, each assuming a certain set of processes (
dispersal, vicariance, sympatric speciation) to be the driving force in shaping geographical distributions. All models are implemented in the maximum likelihood
framework, which is great, because then you can compare the models through log-likelihood and AIC values and accordingly pick the best model. This is preferable to 
going into the analysis already assuming a process (welcome to the dispersal vs vicariance schools of thought), which was how biogeography was 
approached for many years. BioGeoBears is a good way to go forward with your biogeographic analysis. However, I would recommend reading Matzke (2013, thesis abstract) and 
Matzke (2014) to really understand the models and processes assumed and the parameters involved. It is very important you understand this before you implement the models. 

Implementing the BioGeoBEARS models on RASP is rather straightforward. Choosing discrete geographic areas can be sometimes difficult, but it is an important step
in this analysis. It is also important to remember that the total number of area combinations scales with the number of discrete areas (n) as 2ˆn, so 
it is important to ensure that you don't have the number of areas exceeding 10 or so (which is still high I would say). 


Refer to: 
1. Matzke, N. J. (2013). Probabilistic historical biogeography: new models for founder-event speciation, imperfect detection, 
and fossils allow improved accuracy and model-testing. University of California, Berkeley.
2. Matzke, N. J. (2014). Model selection in historical biogeography reveals that founder-event speciation is a crucial process
in island clades. Systematic biology, 63(6), 951-970.
3. http://phylo.wikidot.com/biogeobears#toc25
4. Sanmartín, I. (2012). Historical biogeography: evolution in time and space. Evolution: Education and Outreach, 5(4), 555-568.
5. Yu, Y., Blair, C., & He, X. (2020). RASP 4: ancestral state reconstruction tool for multiple genes and characters. Molecular 
biology and evolution, 37(2), 604-606.

